Story Recapped here. Today I'm going to
explain a British post-apocalyptic zombie
film called 28 Days Later. Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care.
At the Cambridge Primate Research Centre, a
chimpanzee is strapped to a bed with electrodes
on its head. An array of television screens
play videos of riots in front of the animal.
A group of animal rights activists
infiltrates the facility. A room full
of chimpanzees in cages angers the group,
horrified at the animals' conditions. They
start taking photographs as evidence of
animal cruelty against the research center.
They go further into the room, finding
the chimpanzee watching the riot footage.
The woman in the group is troubled by the scene,
but their leader pushes her to focus
on their task to save the animals.
A scientist for the research center walks
in on them. He rushes to alert security,
but one of the male activists catches
and stops him. The scientist warns them
that the chimpanzees are infected and that their
experiments could develop a cure for the animals.
When the leader interrogates
him about the infection,
the scientist simply explains
that they're infected with rage.
This doesn't convince the activist. The
leader orders the others to free the animals,
despite the scientist warning them that
they're highly contagious. The female
activist opens a cage and is immediately
attacked by the chimpanzee inside.
It bites her until the other man hits
the animal's head to force it to let go.
The woman starts vomiting blood. The
frightened scientist begs them to kill her,
but the others don't listen. The woman
spits blood onto her fellow activist's face,
causing him to recoil. The scientist grabs a metal
chair, ready to kill the infected woman. But he's
too late. The infection has set in, and the woman
attacks him while the monkeys bang on the cage.
Twenty-eight days later, a bicycle courier
named Jim wakes up alone in the hospital.
He's strapped to various tubes and surrounded
by medical machinery. But there is no one else
in the room and no signs of life in the hospital
hall. He finds a key under the door and opens it.
After finding a set of scrubs, he clothes
himself and wanders around the hospital.
The building is in disarray, and all
the phones are down. Jim gathers drinks
and candy bars from the broken vending
machines before setting off into the city.
The city is quiet and desolated. Signs of chaos
are everywhere, filling the Westminster bridge
with trash. Jim calls out for anyone as he
wanders around London, but nobody answers.
Having no idea what happened, he pushes on, hoping
to find any clue as to why the city is empty.
While gathering for supplies, he picks
up a newspaper with the word EVACUATION
on the front page -- it's his first
clue about the situation. Soon after,
he finds a wall filled with missing person
posters and letters from concerned families.
Desperate for answers, Jim walks into a dim
church, heading up the steps for a better view
of the area. He stops when he sees the countless
dead bodies littered on the bottom floor.
The horrific image has Jim
frozen, confused and devastated.
He calls out, hoping that there's still someone
alive. Immediately, some of the bodies stand,
looking at him menacingly. He hears
banging on the door across the hallway.
A priest forces the doors open,
screeching and twitching violently.
Jim slowly backs away, fearful of the crazed
man before him. The priest charges at him,
attempting to grab him, and Jim swings his bag
of supplies across his head, causing the priest
to tumble down. Jim cries, regretting his action.
But the priest continues to clamber towards him.
Jim heads down the stairs and out of the
church. A few of the raging people chase
after him. When he nears the gas station,
two people throw petrol bombs at his chasers,
helping him escape. They drag him out of the
scene just before the gas station explodes.
Once the explosion settles, they take him to
the subway station. Jim collapses inside the
convenience store as the survivors,
Mark and Selena, interrogate them.
Jim tells them that the last thing
he remembers is that he was in a car
accident while on the job before he woke
up in the empty hospital earlier that day.
Mark and Selena recount what happened to the
city. It started as riots in small villages.
Then it reached the city. The people finally
figured that it was not riots but an infection
spreading through blood contact, causing the
infected to attack others. The government tried
to evacuate the cities, but the plague was already
everywhere. The last news they heard is that the
infection is spreading even in Paris and New
York City. The government and army have fallen.
Jim refuses to believe that there are no other
survivors except for them. He decides that he
needs to check on his family. Mark suggests that
they all go tomorrow morning when it's safer.
The next day, they walk to Deptford, where
Jim's parents live. But when they arrive,
Jim finds that his parents have committed suicide
in their bed, holding a picture of him as a child.
At the back of the photograph is a note
from Jim's parents. They believed that
he already died sleeping in the hospital
and that they'll join him in the afterlife.
Jim mourns for his parents. Selena tells him
that at least they died peacefully instead of
being attacked by the infected. But Jim refuses to
take comfort in that thought. Mark tells his story
of how his parents and sister tried to escape by
leaving the country. But when the infected came,
he lost track of his family in the chaos. In the
end, he only saw his dad getting attacked. Mark
agrees with Selena -- Jim should be grateful
that his parents didn't die on their terms.
They decide to stay at the house for the
night. While Selena and Mark are asleep,
Jim looks around the house, reminiscing about his
parents. He watches a home video of his parents,
but the lights alert the infected outside.
The infected crash into the windows, cornering
Jim. Marks comes and kills the infected.
Jim recognizes his attackers as their
neighbors. Selena quickly interrogates
Jim if he was bit or if the infected blood got
into his mouth. He says no. They turn to Mark,
who's cleaning a wound on his arm. As
soon as he noticed Selena looking at him,
he's scared and pleading for his life.
Without another word, Selena kills him.
Jim watches in horror but
doesn't question Selena's action.
Right after Mark's death, Selena starts
gathering supplies and tells Jim to do the same.
More infected tend to arrive after an attack,
so they can't stay in the house anymore.
As they walk in the dark empty streets,
Jim finally asks how Selena knew Mark was
infected. Selena said that she didn't
know, but she could tell from how Mark
looked. That he knew he was infected.
Selena insists that once infected,
they only have 10-20 seconds to
kill the person before they turn.
She assures him that if Jim gets infected,
Selena will do the same as she did with Mark.
Blinking lights from an apartment building catches
Jim's attention. They head to the building to
investigate. From the building's ground floor,
they see the stairs barricaded by shopping carts.
They climb the stairs, but Jim stops, feeling
unwell. Selena explains that he's crashing,
having eaten nothing but candy bars and
soda. She gives him pain medication,
but they hear the infected rushing to
the building before Jim can drink it.
The infected reach the stairs and chases after
them. Jim struggles to climb, still feeling weak.
He pleads for Selena to help him. He finally
catches up to her just as Selena is stopped by
a man in riot gear. The man tells them to go to
one of the apartments while he fights against
the infected. However, the girl inside refuses
to let them in until her father tells her so.
Inside, they meet father and
daughter, Frank and Hannah.
Frank is ecstatic to find new
survivors, but Hannah is wary of them.
Frank offers them drinks before shutting off
the Christmas lights he set up on the window.
That evening, Selena and Jim talk about Frank
and Hannah. Selena believes that Frank and Hannah
needed them; that's why they saved them. Jim
thinks they're just good people. Selena chuckles,
saying that they're more likely to slow them
down, and she would leave them if that was so.
Before turning in to sleep, Jim
finally thanks Selena for saving him.
The following day, Frank takes Jim to the rooftop,
where he had set all the pails and basins he could
find to gather water. But it hasn't rained in
10 days, leaving all the buckets dry and empty.
The four listen to the radio, hearing a broadcast
from the military that promises salvation in a
blockade outside of Manchester. Frank plans
for them to head there, confessing that he
did need them more than they needed his help.
He couldn't risk his daughter helpless in the
streets if something happened to him. But Selena
argues that if the broadcast is a recording,
the soldiers may already be dead. Hannah finally
speaks up, pointing out that they'll die where
they are anyway as they were running out of
supplies. They can't protect themselves from
the infected in the city either, so they have to
try finding the military for better protection.
The next day, they take Frank's cab to
head to their destination. They watch the
devastation in the city from the car window.
Countless dead bodies are on the street.
They stop in front of a tunnel,
weighing the risks of driving inside.
The tunnel is the most direct way to their
destination, but Jim argues that it's safer
to take a longer path in broad daylight. Frank
decides to just go into the tunnel to save time.
Inside the tunnel, abandoned cars
block their way. Frank takes the
risk and drives around and over the cars. It
works, but a tire gets flattened on the way.
Hannah hurries to change the tire while
Selena and Jim watch out for the infected.
Jim hears something strange in the distance.
A large group of rats rushes past them.
Selena realizes that the rats are running away
from the infected, who have reached the tunnel.
Frank and Jim lift the car to help Hannah change
the tires. The tire is fixed in the nick of time,
and they all rush inside. Frank drives
away before the infected reach them.
They stop by a grocery store, taking one shopping
cart to fill for each of them. The small shopping
spree lightens up the group's mood. They load
up the car with the supplies and drive away.
They stop again to retrieve gas from a
fuel truck near a cheeseburger store.
While Frank gathers fuel, Jim enters
the store, hoping to find cheeseburgers.
Instead, he finds dead bodies
inside. When he calls out,
he's attacked by an infected child,
whom he kills using a baseball bat.
The group moves on to an old castle
ruin, where they have a picnic.
Frank points out to a family of horses running
free. The group enjoys the peaceful view.
After bonding with the rest, Selena confesses
that she's changed her mind on only caring about
her own survival. Feeling happy for the first
time since the outbreak, Selena kisses Jim on
the cheek but apologizes immediately. Jim is
nonchalant about it but looks glad about the kiss.
They decide to camp out in the ruin for the night.
Jim, Frank, and Hannah can't sleep, worried if
they were safe enough out there. They notice that
Selena was sound asleep. Jim wakes her up, asking
how she manages to sleep. Selena reveals that she
has prescription medicines in her bag. Selena was
a chemist before the outbreak. That's how she got
the medication. Jim offers Frank and Hannah Valium
from Selena's stash to help them sleep. Frank
refuses, wanting to be alert in case of an attack.
After falling asleep, Jim wakes up with
the others gone. He panics and screams,
with no one answering him. Frank wakes him
up. Jim realizes it was just a nightmare.
On the next day, they finally reach the
blockade and find that it's in ruins.
They investigate the area, hoping for any
signs of life. The others have given up,
but Frank insists on looking for clues
about where the military has gone.
Frank walks around the blockade, separating
himself from the rest. A crow eating an infected
soldier distracts him. He starts lashing out
at the crow out of frustration but ends up
getting infected blood into his eye. Hannah
finds him. He reminds her that he loves her,
alerting Hannah that something was wrong. Frank
becomes violent, pushing Hannah away to keep her
safe from himself. Jim and Selena rush to Hannah's
aid, watching Frank turn from the infection.
Selena holds back Hannah as she screams for Jim
to kill Frank. Just as Jim is about to fight him,
soldiers hiding in the woods start
shooting at Frank, killing him quickly.
The soldiers take Jim, Hannah, and Selena
to their new base at the Worsley House.
There, they meet the leader, Major
Henry West, who welcomes them.
While Hannah is resting, Selena breaks down,
worried about Hannah. She didn't want Hannah to
go through this life they're in. Seeing compassion
in her, Jim kisses her, surprising Selena.
She kisses him back but quickly rushes out
of the room, confused about her feelings.
Later that day, Jim talks to Major West. Major
West talks about their answer to the infection,
which may not be what Jim's group imagined. He
gives Jim a tour of the mansion, explaining how
they've secured the area and built a civilized
living despite the conditions. In the kitchen,
Jim meets Private Jones, who's taken
up cooking duties for the team.
Finally, Major West takes Jim behind the mansion
where Mailer, an infected soldier, is chained up.
Major West explains that he'd done this
to learn about the infected, at least,
to find out how long it takes for Mailer and
the rest of the infected to die of starvation.
That evening, the trio has
dinner with the soldiers.
They meet the rest of the team, Davis, Bell,
Farrell, Clifton, Bedford, and Mitchell,
who talks about what it means to go back to
a normal life. Major West raises that people
have always killed other people, even before the
outbreak. So they're still living normal lives.
An explosion alerts the soldiers, and they
rush to fight the incoming infected people.
The infected are running to the mansion from
the clearing, and soldiers shoot at them.
When Jones successfully kills one, he cheers
triumphantly, but Mitchell scolds him to focus.
An infected triggers a mine that explodes, ending
the fight. The soldiers celebrate their victory.
Seeing Selena with her machete,
Mitchell takes the weapon from her,
assuring her that he will protect her. He
mocks her and attempts to force himself on her,
but Jim stops him. Mitchell gets the upper hand
on Jim, but Farrell slams Mitchell with his gun.
Major West stops the commotion, ordering Mitchell
to secure the area, and orders Farrell to clear
the bodies. He returns the machete back
to Selena before inviting Jim for a drink.
Alone, Major West confesses that, after
he caught Jones trying to kill himself,
he promised the team that he would give them
any women they rescued. This was why he sent
out the radio broadcast, to lure survivors,
hoping that there will be women whom the
soldiers can repopulate the world with once
all the infected die of starvation. To him,
it was the only way to give
his team hope for the future.
Horrified, Jim storms out of the
room to fetch Selena and Hannah.
He rushes them to escape but is knocked out by the
soldiers. When Jim wakes up, Farrell is protecting
him from the others. But he's overpowered and
subdued. Major West gives Jim a chance to join his
team, insisting that they needed the women. Jim
refuses and is locked in the cellar with Farrell.
In the cellar, Jim listens to Farrell
ranting about how Major West had gone insane.
Farrell insists that Great Britain is only being
quarantined, and the rest of the world is free
from the infection. Mitchell and Jones arrive and
take the two prisoners in the woods for execution.
Jim and Farrell are taken to the place where they
dispose of dead bodies. Farrell insults Mitchell,
causing tension between them. Mitchell threatens
that he'll kill them painfully, but the nervous
Jones fires at Farrell instead, sparing him from
Mitchell's sadism. Jones nearly hits Mitchell,
angering him. The distraction allows Jim to
hide. Mitchell and Jones run to find Jim,
not knowing that Jim hid
amongst the dead bodies nearby.
He listens to Jones and Mitchell yell and
fire aimlessly, desperate to find him.
Jim climbs over the wall and escapes.
Seeing his shirt stuck on the barbed wires,
Mitchell is confident that
he'll be dead soon anyway.
A storm brews as Jim runs in the woods. Tired,
he collapses again and spots an airplane
in the sky. The sight gives him hope.
Back at the Worsley House, Selena hugs
Hannah protectively while Major West
commands Bedford to take them to the master's
bedroom and make them look more presentable.
There, they force Selena's
clothes off. Getting an idea,
Selena kisses Clifton and convinces him to
let her and Hannah dress up by themselves.
The soldiers agree to leave, believing that
the women won't do anything on their own.
Once they're alone, Selena hurriedly gives Hannah
sleeping pills to make what awaits them
less traumatic for the younger girl.
However, they're caught by Clifton,
who forcibly takes the pills from them.
A warning siren sounds coming from their
old blockade. Jim has triggered the siren.
Major West and Davis drive to the blockade
to investigate. Having seen movements,
Davis climbs a ladder to investigate, only
for Jim to hit him on the head with a crowbar.
Major West hears the commotion and follows
the sound. He spots Davis back in their jeep,
but when he opens the door, he realizes that
Davis is dead. Major West drags Davis' body
off the driver seat and gets in. He finds the
jeep is sabotaged, unable to start. Infected
people attack him, but he quickly disposes
of them. He goes back to their base on foot.
Back at the Worsley House, Jim uses Davis' gun
to free Mailer. Inside, the soldiers guard Selena
and Hannah, who are now wearing red dresses. They
hear gunshots outside, and Jones becomes nervous.
Mitchell and Bedford head down to investigate,
leaving Jones and Clifton with the women. Hannah
tells Selena that she feels the pills already
affecting her. The dazed Hannah unnerves Jones.
Mailer appears from the window and grabs
Clifton, vomiting in his face. Selena takes
Hannah and leads her out of danger. When Mailer
turns his eyes on Jones, he scrambles away.
Selena and Hannah head to the exit but are blocked
by Mitchell and Bedford. They watch Jones getting
chased by Mailer. Mitchell orders Bedford
to help Jones while he deals with the women.
Jim peers into the window, looking for the
women. Instead, he sees Mailer tracking down
Jones into the kitchen. Bedford confidently
stands in the way, ready to shoot Mailer,
but is attacked by the infected Clifton. Jones
is hiding inside the cupboards, frightened.
As Mitchell leads the women to
Bell upstairs, Hannah wanders off.
Selena screams for her, but Hannah ignores them.
With the kitchen going quiet, Jones
thinks it's safe for him to escape.
He comes out of the cupboard and runs
to the exit, only to be stabbed by Jim.
Now inside the house, Jim avoids
the infected. Major West arrives,
finding Jones by the door. He
comforts the dying soldier.
Hannah finds the photo of her family
amongst her old clothes in the bathroom.
The infected Clifton enters the bathroom,
but Hannah hides behind the mirror.
Jim frantically searches for the
women, going door to door. Instead,
he finds Bell hiding behind the couch. Bell
ran out of bullets and begs Jim not to leave.
Clifton and Mailer break the door open and
attack Bell. Jim exits through the window.
Spotting Selena's red dress from another window,
Jim goes inside. Selena and Mitchell hear him, and
Mitchell drags Selena back. Jim attacks Mitchell,
brutally slamming his head and gouging his eyes.
Scared, Selena mistakes that Jim is infected.
She nearly attacks him with her machete until
she realizes that he was okay. The two
share a kiss when Hannah walks in and
breaks a bottle on Jim's head. Selena
assures her that Jim was not infected.
The trio head out, retrieving Frank's
car. Hannah gets into the driver's seat
but finds Major West waiting for them in
the backseat. He shoots Jim in the stomach.
Hannah puts the car in reverse, forcing the car
back into the house. Major West tries to stop her,
but Mailer breaks the rear window and forces
him out of the vehicle. Selena helps the
wounded Jim into the car, and they drive off,
leaving Major West with his infected soldiers.
Hannah warns the two that the gates are locked.
Jim encourages her to drive straight
to it, and they crash onto the gate.
Twenty-eight days later, Jim wakes up after
dreaming of being revived by Selena in a hospital.
The three found a remote cottage near a lake
where Selena stitches large amounts of fabric,
and Hannah sets more fabric outside in the field.
Back in the city, the infected
are slowly dying of starvation.
Hannah storms inside their new home,
alerting the two that something is coming.
The three grab the fabric from the sewing
machine and set it down on the field.
They wait expectantly until they spot a
fighter jet pass them. The fabric they've
set up spells HELLO on the field, alerting the
pilot that they are survivors to be rescued.